

Welcome to the Sanderson Timeline Archives. This project's aim is to track the timeline of various 
fictional characters from Brandon Sanderson’s novels.

The goal is to easily view important life events in the characters’ lives,
and to provide an overview of important plot events for each book. 

First priority will be given to the Stormlight Archive, as the books are lengthy and can be a task 
to read through again each time a sequel is released. 
Second priority will be given to the Mistborn world, as these are the next largest body of work and 
will assuredly play a large role in the Stormlight Archive. 

Design Elements:
Typeography: 
headings:Lugrasimo, Alegreya, Cinzel
subheadings:Figtree(neutral), Signika Negative, Montserrat Alternates
body:Libre Baskerville, Amiri, Vollkorn, 

Color Palatte:
background: sand #E2CAA8
Nav Background: 
Card Backgrounds: 

Essential: Homepage
- Intro + Pictures 
- Art Credits, links to artists Instagrams, Coppermind shoutout. 
- Onpage links to timelines. 

First Priority: Book Summaries, 
- Way of Kings
- Words of Radiance
- Oathbringer
- Rhythm of War

Second Priority: Characters,
- Kaladin
- Dalinar
- Shallan
- Szeth
- Adolin
- Lift
- Eshonai
- Venli
- Taravangian
- Navani
- Jasnah
- Moash
- Renarin
- Tanavast/Honor
- Cultivation
- Rayse/Odium

For Characters, there will be two options:
Option 1: Following the character's experience in the order the books present them. 
Option 2: The chronological character history. 

Kaladin Event Outline
WoK
Slave Cages
Bridge Runs
Honorchasm/First Oath
Young, Family scenes
Highstorm
Killing Shardbearer/Amaram's Betrayal
Training in chasms
Meeting Wit Wandersail
Parshendi shield
The Tower/Second Ideal
Tien's Death
Dalinar Trades Oathbringer
Dalinar Hires Kaladin
WoR
Training Bodyguards (pic)
Gives Shallan his Boot (pic)
Amaram arrives at Shattered Plains/Kaladin tells Dalinar of Amaram's treachery
Defends Dalinar from Szeth (pic)
Trains with Zahel
Learning his Powers/Renarin joins Bridge 4 (pic)
Moash confides in Kaladin
Shen reveals he is Rlain
Kaladin guards Adolin and Shallan (Wit as carraige driver)
Helps Adolin in the Disadvantaged Duel/Challenges Amaram (pic)
Kaladin Imprisoned/Finds out Elhokar exiled Roshone/Bonds with Adolin/Gives Shards to Moash (pic)
Sadeas Sabotage/Falls into Chasm with Shallan (pic)
Drunk Elhokar confronts Kaladin (pic)
Kaladn defends Elhokar against Moash and Graves (pic)
Defends Dalinar from Szeth/Fights in the sky (pic)
Bridge 4 gains some windrunner abilities. (pic)
Oath
Visits Hearthstone/Reunites w/Family/is over Roshone
Travels with the Parshmen/diverts the highstorm/returns to Urithiru
Mission to Kholinar
Lost in Shadesmar/Thaylen Oathgate
Battle of Thaylen Field
ROW
Evacuating Hearthstone/Rescuing the Mink/Meets the Pursuer-Lezian/Confronts Moash/Roshone is killed
Dalinar relieves Kaladin of command- Kaladin worries over not swearing the 4th ideal. 
Kaladin Becomes Depressed
Fights Zahel
Kaladin Settles family in Urithiru, becomes a surgeon again with his father/Helping the shellshocked-PTSD retired soldiers with Teft. Helps with depression. 


Option 1: Kaladin Text

Intro Text
Kaladin is a young gifted soldier and field surgeon. 
He has known adversity and loss throughout his life. 
He has suffered repeated oppression and betrayal by the lighteyed nobility, 
Kaladin is driven to protect others, and takes personal responsibility for the failure or death of anyone he loves.


Way of Kings
Kaladin is the focus character of the Way of Kings. 
His story line cuts back and forth in time between his youth and the current time during his 20s.  
Kaladin's first appearance is as a squadleader in Amaram's army at about 18 years old. 
He tries to defend young, unskilled men, paying extra to keep them in his squad. 

His storyline then cuts to his time as a slave under Tvlakv as an adult. 
While in the slave wagons he has his first conversations with a seemingly inteligent windspren. 
He is sold to Sadeas's warcamp at the Shattered Plains, where he is placed in Bridge Four, 
and made to run headlong into enemy fire with the rest of his bridgecrew to give the army a way to cross the chasms. 
Kaladin miraculously survives while running at the front of the bridgecrew, 
where both his neighbors were cut down and many other bridgemen. 


Kaladin contemplates suicide at the Honorchasm, before deciding with Syl's help to continue fighting. 
Kaladin regains motivation and bribes Gaz, the sergeant over the bridgecrews, to make him bridgeleader. 
He works to improve the life of his bridgecrew, forcing them to train so they will have a better chance 
of survival, slowly helping them gain optimisim. Eventually they see themselves  helps them see themselves as soldiers. 
Kaladin also plans to find a way to escape from Sadeas's army. 

Kaladin faces the internal struggles of his inability to save those around him and his distrust of any lighteyes.

As the focus character of The Way of Kings, Kaladin's past is viewed through the use of flashbacks. 
The flashbacks show his childhood and his surgeon apprenticeship under his father, as well as how he joins the army and why he became a slave.

Words of Radiance

Oathbringer

Rhythm of War